Before going forward, it might be good to define a few words to make the following easier to understand:

 - [Relational Databases](en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relational_database): Relational databases store data in tables. It might help to visualize them as excel sheets. Data in relational databases is *normalized* and *structured*. Relational databases also have developed a set of features that allow them to guarantee writes; in other words, in case of failure, the data stays uncorrupted. This set of features is referred to as
 - [ACID](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ACID): In computer science, ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability) is a set of properties that guarantee that database transactions are processed reliably
 - [SQL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL): "SQL" stands for "Structured Query Language". It refers to the language that is used in the earliest databases to instruct the database how to store or retrieve data. By extension, it has become synonymous with "relational databases".
 - [NoSQL](en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NoSQL): NoSQL refers to a new wave of databases that are non-relational. Some of them *do* use SQL language, so the appellation is often a misnomer, and should be understood as "not relational", and not as "not using SQL". NoSQL databases include, but are not limited to:
     + [Document databases](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document-oriented_database): Databases that store information as a tree; A good visualization is a file system (folders containing other folders containing files). Document databases are specially useful for nested data, for speed, and for flexibility (since the data is, by design, not normalized, it's easy to add properties to any object). They have a reputation of being ACID-adverse, but huge technological improvements have been changing this in the last year.
     + [Graph databases](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_database): Databases that establish links between things. This is specially useful for arbitrarily linking two objects ("nodes", in graph parlance) with a link ("edge") specifying a certain relation. They are widely used in social networks (X is "friends" with Y, A is "going out with" B). The landscape of Graph databases is mostly bare, with only a few dominating ones.
     + [Key-Value Store](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Key-value_database): Very simple databases that store every piece of data under a key. Imagine an excel sheet with only two columns, one of which is an identity field you can't fiddle with. The extreme simplification allows for extreme speeds.

**to sum it up**:

 - **Relational databases** express data as "X *is* made of A, B, and C", such as "a book *is* made of title, number of pages, and author". They have been in use for years and most problems that might arise have been already solved.
 - **Document databases** express data as "X *contains* A, B, and C", such as "Contact *has* an address, the address *has* a street, a city, and a state". They are new, and hard problems are still arising nowadays.
 - **Graph databases** express data as "X *is in relation with* A, B, and C *and the quality of their relation is Y*", such as "Alice *is friends with* Bob and Bob *is a member of* the local chess club". Graph databases are complex and as a result, very few open-source solutions are available today.

Finally, to make things a bit more complex, some databases are *mixed*. OrientDb is a graph database that incorporates some relational features. PostgreSQL is a relational database, but as of it's latest version can also store and search "documents".

In the case of the highly relational data we are dealing with, a graph database would make a lot of sense (photo X is "in" album Y, and is "defined by" terms A,B,and C), but choosing a graph database would mean doing away with ready-made solutions, as well as sacrificing somewhat future maintainability (most people have not even *heard* of noSQL databases, let alone graph databases).